This file describes the work done and steps to perform test on the laser_assembler package with crystal release.

"https://github.com/vandanamandlik/laser_assembler/tree/ros2-crystal"


ROS2 Migration changes

	The basic concept and design are same as ROS1.
	Work Done by referring ROS1 hydro-devel branch of laser_assembler package.
	All changes for migration have been done as per Migration guide.
		- Migrated all header and source files into ROS2 style
		- Migrated yaml files into ROS2 style
		- Migrated .launch file into launch.py in ROS2 style. (referred link https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Launch-system/)
		- Migrated CMakeLists.txt and package.xml in ROS2 style
		- Added point_cloud_conversion.h and point_field_conversion.h files.(commit id 654d367560f4710b9f368deb5a6709024c4b50d4 )
			- These files were not there in sensor_msgs package of ros2 so just copied it from ROS1 and ported to ROS2 here.
			- laser assembler uses convertPointCloudToPointCloud2() function from point_cloud_conversion.h file.
			- point_cloud_conversion.h uses point_field_conversion.h file
			- Added issue here
				https://answers.ros.org/question/309685/ros2-could-not-find-alternative-option-for-point_cloud_conversionh-in-sensor_msgs-package/
		- Added custom service code which generates structure for request and response part of the communication (commit id d1ae9deb83f1afbcc06e31786b0b66c0e73f23f0)
			- replaced time datatype with int64 in AssembleScans.srv file.
			- As per ROS2 migration guide types duration and time which were builtin types in ROS 1 have been replaced with normal message definitions and must be used from the builtin_interfaces package.

Dependencies

	filters - https://github.com/swatifulzele/filters/tree/ros2_devel
	laser_geometry
	message_filters
	launch

Build packages

	mkdir test_laser_assembler

	Build filters package
		Go to test_laser_assembler directory
		mkdir filters_ws
		mkdir filters_ws/src
		cd filters_ws/src
		git clone https://github.com/swatifulzele/filters.git -b ros2_devel
		Go to filters_ws directory.
		source /opt/ros/crystal/setup.bash
		colcon build

	Build laser_geometry package (laser_geometry package was not having PointCloud1 support so I have added it here.)
		Go to test_laser_assembler directory
		mkdir laser_geometry_ws
		mkdir laser_geometry_ws/src
		cd laser_geometry_ws/src
		git clone https://github.com/vandanamandlik/laser_geometry.git -b ros2-devel
		Go to laser_geometry_ws directory.
		colcon build

	Build laser_assembler
		Go to test_laser_assembler directory
		mkdir laser_assembler_ws
		mkdir laser_assembler_ws/src
		git clone https://github.com/vandanamandlik/laser_assembler.git -b ros2-crystal
		remove laser_assembler_srv_gen folder from laser_assembler and paste it in src folder (so your src folder should contain laser_assembler and laser_assembler_srv_gen directories.)
		Go to laser_assembler_ws
		source <filters's setup.bash file path> (eg. source filters_ws/install/setup.sh)
		source <laser_geometry's setup.bash file path>
		colcon build

Do the test

	Here launch files are used independently.
	Following are the steps to run the test cases independently:

	1.  Set the path
		Go to laser_assembler_ws
		source /opt/ros/crystal/setup.bash
		source ./install/setup.bash
 
	2. To run non_zero_point_cloud_test
		ros2 launch laser_assembler test_laser_assembler.launch.py

Limitations

	colcon test does not work as launch.py files can not be executed/added with CMakeLists.txt as of now.(https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Launch-system/)

Future work

	- test_laser_assembler.launch.py files should be executed using "colcon test" automatically.
	- service should part of the laser_assembler package, it means it should generate code from the laser_assembler package cmake and package.xml itself, right now there is separte cmake and package.xml to generate custom service code. I was facing some issues to generate it from laser_assembler cmake.(Build was successfull but was facing some issues while importing files generated by custom service.)
	
	 
